Testing, testing, four, five, six, four, five, six, four, five, six.
Testing, testing, seven, eight, nine, seven, eight, nine.
We're testing a second time.
Testing, testing, testing.
This is July the 30th, I believe.
That's correct.
Monday afternoon, and I have the pleasure and honor of chatting with Colonel James Woodall about today, about his student years.
To begin with, to introduce yourself to anybody that might hear this tape or read a transcription, describe growing up, elementary school, high school, what did mom and dad do, where did you all live?
Tell us about what it was before you came to NM.
Well, I was born in Fort Worth, Texas, July the 15th, 1929.
And I was born in my grandmother's house on Gould Avenue on the north side.
And I was raised the first few years around different places in Fort Worth.
And most of the time, my father had a service station.
And he had a service station on East Lancaster
for years, and then he moved over to Camp Bowie and West 7th, and that was a prime location for a service station.
We had lived in Fort Worth, then we had moved out to Lake Worth, then we had moved back to Fort Worth, lived over in the Poly section.
I went to the first grade
at Lake Worth, and it was a one building, a big old wooden, long wooden building.
It wasn't exactly a one-room schoolhouse, but it was several-room schoolhouse, and it's pretty primitive.
We had outdoor toilets, no indoor plumbing at all, and I went there in the first grade, and then we moved back to Fort Worth, and this was during the Depression, you know.
were kind of tough for everybody around.
Anyway, we moved back to Fort Worth and back to Poly, Polytechnic side.
I guess that's the east side of Fort Worth.
And I went to the third through the, let's see, second through the fourth grade there.
And it was, lived about eight, seven or eight blocks.
Of course, it was always walking to and from school.
There's no such thing as anyone taking you to school or a school bus or anything like that.
And I lived there until the end of the fourth grade.
Then we moved back to Lake Worth, and I started in the fifth grade in Lake Worth.
I guess it would be junior high by that time, or elementary.
Anyway, I went from the fifth through the, well, up until high school there.
Now, somewhere along the line, when I was about 11, I guess, my parents divorced, and
And I was given a choice of whether I wanted to live with my mother or my father, and so I chose my grandmother and grandfather and solved that argument.
And they lived at Lake Worth, and my grandfather was one of the pioneers at Lake Worth.
He had opened up a business out there when the lake was first put in, and they put the first bridge across.
And he had a very successful business.
It was a service station, convenience store, feed store, wood yard.
had the water supply system, had a bait shop, Minovats, ice house.
And he had the ice route at Lake Worth and delivered ice to different people's homes around Lake Worth.
So he was a real entrepreneur.
And over the years, I worked just about every summer there on and off.
Whenever I wanted to work, I could go over there and work.
And so I kind of grew up around that.
My brother was five years younger.
Like I said, he went to live with my mother for a while.
Then he eventually wound up with my grandmother and grandfather.
Now, one thing I'm proud of is that, you know, I have veterans of the Civil War in my background.
My grandfather's father was with the 6th Texas Cavalry.
My grandmother's
grandfather was with the 9th Texas Cavalry, and both of these were part of the Sol Ross Brigade, so that's always been a source of pride.
Now as I was growing up, my uncle went to A&M, he was in the Class of 31, Russell Woodall.
And my grandmother Woodall, from the time I can remember, used to be, used to talk to me about Texas A&M and tell me how great it was and how
much had done for Russell, and of course his annuals were there.
They were called longhorns at that time.
And any time I'd go to my grandmother's house, I would look at the annuals, the longhorns, and I would also play with his saber, which I thought was really great.
And when I got a little bit bigger, they let me take the saber home with me, and I had it in my closet for years and years.
In fact, I carried that saber in the Corps of Cadets.
After I graduated, I turned it over to Russell's son, and he carried it in the Corps of Cadets back in the 60s.
He went to vet school down here.
So anyway, I was raised at Lake Worth, and it was really an outdoor type life because there was woods right next to my house, and I always had a horse from the time I was about 10, I guess, and I would be down in the woods on my horse, and I had a
I had guns at an early age, and I would be hunting down in the woods or just playing in the woods by myself or with other people.
My best friend at this time was a fellow named Joe Earl Hodgkins, H-O-D-G-K-I-N-S, and we were best friends up until, well, we were best friends, but then he went to TCU and I went to Texas A&M, and we kind of drifted apart at that time.
PhD in chemistry and of course I was in the army so we didn't see much of each other.
He died just a few years ago.
I had, during this time, World War II started.
Now this was probably the most significant thing that happened during my lifetime was World War II.
And I remember that I was in Fort Worth, Texas at a movie on a Sunday afternoon with my cousin, Bobby Johnson.
And they stopped the movie and it was, the movie was Sergeant Yark.
They stopped the movie and announced that the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor.
Well, you know, really we didn't even know where Pearl Harbor was.
But from then on, it was the full court press for the American people on winning the war.
And they built the bomber plant out near Lake Worth.
And a lot of the people around that area
worked at the bomber plant, and that's when times really started getting better, because up until that time, I know my grandfather gave a lot of credit during the 30s, and had everybody paid him off, he'd have been very wealthy, but he gave a lot of credit.
It's like he had the water supply.
I don't know that he ever cut anybody off of the water.
He had people coming in, buying a few groceries, or buying a little gasoline, and he would give them credit.
But I was in the Boy Scouts at this time, and our scout troop was very active.
We spent a lot of times camping, and we just went out on our own a lot.
So I did spend a lot of time in the woods, and I guess that kind of foretold what I was going to do in life, and that was being the infantry, where we did spend a lot of time in the woods, sleeping on the ground.
Our boy scout troop was very active, like I said, and we gathered aluminum, we gathered newspapers, we gathered magazines, we gathered scrap iron, just anything that they, rubber tires, whatever the government said they needed to collect, well, our scout troop was out collecting it.
And I know, you know, I was very interested in the war.
In fact, I was afraid the war would be over before I could get into it.
I remember going down to the
different recruiting officers with my friend Joe, and we'd go down and we'd try to join, and they'd tell us to come back in a couple of years.
And two of my friends down the street, they were twins, they joined when they were 15.
But I couldn't get my parents or grandparents or anyone to sign anything, so I wasn't able to do that.
My grandfather was the civil defense warden for Lake Worth, and of course I was his messenger, and I thought that was a big deal, being a messenger in the civil defense.
They had a lot of training for the civil defense people, and I used to go with my grandfather to the training, so I was actively involved in World War II, although I didn't participate.
At high school, well, when I was in the eighth grade, the school at Lake Worth burned down.
And this was during the war, and material was very hard to get.
After the school burned down, we went to school in churches, and we went to school at another school district, half-day schools, and it was really a mess, my eighth grade.
So I decided I would go to North Fort Worth to high school, 9th, 10th, and 11th.
We only went 11 years in those days.
At Northside, they had the ROTC program and I wanted to get into that because I figured that would, you know, if I can't get in the service, well, I can at least get in the ROTC and wear a uniform and march around a little bit.
So I did that and that was one of my main activities in high school.
We had no sports at Lake Worth.
It was just a small country school and they really didn't have any sports in the junior high.
Now, they were just getting a football program when I moved into, I didn't move in, but when I went to Northside High,
I weighed about 125 pounds and the football players there were 200 and up.
It was a big team.
But my junior year I decided well maybe I will go out to football.
I went out and it didn't take me too long to learn that I would never be anything more than a tackling dummy.
So that one year sufficed.
But one thing the football boys got to do at Northside, they got to be the ushers at the Fort Worth, they call it the fat stock show at that time.
And so I got to be an usher at the rodeo, and I saw every performance of the rodeo for three years running.
Now while I was in high school, I also attended ROTC summer camp at Camp Dallas over near Mineral Wells.
And I went there two summers.
And in the Boy Scouts, I went to Worth Ranch, which was over near
mineral wells, well actually it was near Palo Pinto in Palo Pinto County on the Brazos River and I went there to the summer camp, the boy scout camp every summer for probably four or five years.
I really don't know, during my high school years my closest friend was Bobby Crowe.
Bob Crowe came to A&M with me
And he was my roommate, but he, in an intramural game just before Thanksgiving, he got several teeth knocked out and went home, and he actually never came back.
And part of it might have been his grades.
I don't know what it would be.
He did not come back, and he was coming down to see me the following year when I was a sophomore, and he had an accident in his car, and he was killed on the way down here.
So I've always, you know, felt awfully bad about that.
Now, are we supposed to, I'm not supposed to go into A&M.
So you graduated in spring of, I graduated in.
Spring of 40.
Spring of 1946.
Now, did you think about going to school, to college anywhere else?
It never entered my mind to go anywhere else.
Now, my grandmother wanted me to go to Abilene Christian College because she was strong Church of Christ.
And she called me in my senior year of high school and said, Jimmy,
If you go to Abilene Christian College I'll pay your way and I'll buy you a new car.
Well in 1946 a new car was something, in fact a car was something because people in high school, very, very few in high school even had a car.
Most families only had one car.
So that was a very interesting proposal.
And I told her, well, you know, it'd really be great, Granny, to drive out there to Abilene Christian College in my own car and everything.
But I think I'll just hitchhike down A&M and be an Aggie.
So that's what I did, you know.
Had you been down here to visit?
I've never been to A&M.
Never been, I don't guess I've ever been south of Waco.
So when you came to enroll, that was your first?
First time I ever saw it when we drove up down Highway 6.
Describe that trip.
Who brought you and what did you bring with you?
Well, I want to go back a minute.
Like I said, I worked every summer doing something.
Sometime I didn't work all summer, but I worked on and off with my grandfather almost every summer.
And then my summer of the end of my senior year in high school, I worked in the stockyards, North Fort Worth stockyards.
I worked primarily in the horse and mule barn.
Now this was during my cowboy days.
And I was riding in the rodeo on Saturday nights and Wednesday night, there was a little rodeo there.
I'd ride in the rodeo.
I did mostly what they call the wild mule race, where three of us would be on the end of a rope, and we'd try to stop the mule and get on it and ride it at the other end of the arena.
And we had it down.
In fact, we kind of trained, and so we won almost every night.
So it cost $3 to enter, and the first prize was $15.
So that's the way we made our spending money, was the wild mule race.
And while I was working in the stockyards, I had a number of them.
good experiences, I guess.
One, a fellow hired me to drive him down to South Texas and buy mules.
Now, this was the end of World War II, and they were buying mules and sending them to Turkey and Greece as part of the aid program.
So we went down to South Texas around Hallettsville and Yoakum, Shiner, Schulenburg, down in that area, and we bought every mule in the country that we could find.
And we wound up with, I guess, probably
200 or more mules in Hallettsville.
The problem was the railhead was in Yoakum.
So we had to get the mules from Hallettsville to Yoakum.
So we had what was, I tell people, was the last wild mule drive in Texas.
I participated in that.
And we drove them right down the bar ditch from Hallettsville to Yoakum.
And we got them all there, or at least we think we got them all there.
And then another fellow hired me to drive over to
to Troy, Alabama.
Now, what we did, we took a load of mules over there, an 18-wheeler, took a load of mules over there and sold them in the auction, and then we picked up some cars, and the fellow that was his partner over there in Troy, Alabama was also a Ford dealer, and in this
At this time, there was a lot of black marketing going on with new cars and new trucks because if you wanted to buy one, you had to slip something on the table.
So that's what these guys were doing.
I figured it out, but I figured I wouldn't be involved if I just drove a vehicle not knowing anything.
So they loaded a couple of Fords on that truck, and then they gave me a strip down.
It would have been a flatbed truck, but it didn't have any bed on the back of it.
It was a brand new truck and I had to drive that from Troy, Alabama to Fort Worth, Texas.
And I almost didn't make it because I stopped in Mississippi and at that time I smoked and I was putting gas in the truck and I lit a match to light a cigarette and the thing blew up and didn't catch the truck on fire but the fire was shooting out of the
out of the, well, whatever you call it, place where you put the gasoline, it was a nozzle or something.
Anyway, the fire was shooting out of that and the nozzle was laying on the ground and the fire was shooting out of that and I took off running because I thought the whole thing was going to blow up and the filling station guy came out and stuffed a rag in it and put the fire out.
And I never did tell that guy that I owned this truck that I almost blew it up.
But anyway, I made that back and then
That was when I, that August, I went down to Texas A&M.
My father took me down there, and I'd never, never seen, been at A&M, never seen it.
I'd just seen pictures of it in the newspaper, and I was convinced that that was the right place for me, and I was also convinced that I wanted to be in the cavalry.
So the cavalry was in the books that my uncle had back in the 30s, and I thought they still had the horses down here, so I'd signed up for that,
came down I told people I was supposed to be in the cab and they said well you know uh don't have any cab we don't have any horses well that was you know shock to me so they put me in the infantry and which is all right because I uh I wound up uh spending a career in the infantry and loved loved most of it not every minute but most of it describe uh
You all came down and, you know, strived that trip coming down here.
What did you bring?
Well, I brought a footlocker, and what I had was in that footlocker, and that was all.
What little was in there?
Well, just a little bit of civilian clothes, and I had some, you know, khaki shirts and khaki pants that I had, I thought I could use down here that I had in high school, and I think I had a radio.
They didn't even have a clock on it.
I'm sure I had an alarm clock.
No recreational equipment, no tennis rackets or anything?
Nothing like that.
Shoes, socks, underwear, and a little bit of clothing, and that was it.
When you got here, how did you find wherever it was that you were, where you were supposed to go?
Well, I don't know, but I wound up at Goodwin Hall, and I went in there to the housing in Goodwin Hall, and they gave me a little card that said what dorm I was in.
So I went over to the dorm,
And my father and I lugged the, it was darn 12, we lugged the footlocker up.
And father said goodbye and see you later.
And he took off back to Fort Worth.
Did he give you any advice or counsel?
Well, he didn't know any more about A&M than I did.
Did your grandmother give you any advice or anybody give you any advice when you left?
No, I don't know that I ever got any advice.
Just go down and do the best you can.
Financially, what resources did you have available?
Well, I had some money.
After my parents divorced, they had put some money in a savings account.
I had that money.
And then my father paid my tuition, and I paid any expenses and everything out of that money.
And, of course, any time I wanted money, I could ask my grandmother and my grandfather.
They, you know, they were pretty well off.
But I never did, I really never did ask for much money.
I'd rather make my own.
And so that's what I did.
And, of course, I'd saved, you know, I'd worked, and I had saved up some of my own money.
So, and nothing, you know, it just didn't cost anything.
Like, as far as eating out, I don't know, I can't remember, but one or two times I ever ate out down here.
There was a Mexican place in town there that we'd go to every once in a while.
And I remember that one guy that went with, he'd always, you know, you'd get three enchiladas on a Mexican plate, and he'd always order four.
And I thought, boy, that's really extravagant, you know, spending all that money.
But I really didn't have any.
any money problem because, you know, my tuition was paid for and I had my own spending money, which I rationed out.
And, you know, I'd worked a little bit along, well, my junior year or my sophomore year, I guess it was.
I used to sell ice cream and things like that at the baseball game, make a few dollars.
And then, well, my senior year, I was the editor or the co-editor of the Aggieland and I'm, they paid me $35 a month for that.
And I was making $27 and change for ROTC scholarship, I mean contract.
And so, you know, I was palling down $50, $60 a month just on that.
And that was plenty of money.
There wasn't anything to spend it for.
Describe what, how you, that first day or so, describe how you learned about what A&M traditions and all that.
Well, I'll tell you what, I walked in there and the first thing I met, well,
was a sophomore, and he wasn't even supposed to be there.
He was just down from Hearn, named Pat Hall, and he, big, tall, raw-boned, country-talking guy, and he started hollering at us and going on.
Well, the senior came out finally and got us and put us in the room, and I think they ran him off, and then that week, we didn't have any sophomores around, but we had, it was kind of an orientation week.
Of course, we went to a lot of
a lot of classes that the university put on, and we had classes there in orientation, and they started trying to teach us to march.
Well, the thing about it is I knew how to march better than anybody in my company, including the seniors, because I'd been doing it for three years, and we spent a lot of time in high school with that,
And down here at A&M, they kind of have their own, you know, their own way to do that.
But I knew a lot more about it than they did.
But I never let anybody know.
You know, if they wouldn't show me how to do right face, I'd let them show me.
I never let on that I knew, you know, more than they knew.
I was smart enough not to do that.
But I really never had any problems with the upperclassmen.
I mean, they tried to get to me.
And every freshman had a handle, and my handle was Fish Happy as a Bug's Ass Woodall, because I would laugh right in their face.
Well that would drive them crazy that I would laugh at them, but I never let them get to me, you know.
Did that nickname have a short version?
Well Fish Woodall.
But Happy?
No, no, no.
They never shortened it to one word?
No.
Now what outfit was it?
I was in D. Infantry.
Now did it have a nickname?
Spider D. Why Spider?
Because there was somewhere along the line there was a commander whose nickname was Spider and they just started calling it Spider.
In fact, there's still a Spider D in the Corps now.
What did Spider D members think was special about that outfit?
What did they do better than anybody?
Well, they just, like most other people, of course, they think they're the best outfit that's over there, and that's just what we thought.
Describe your room and what it was like.
Well, it was the, there were three of us in a room.
Like I said, Bob Crow, a classmate from our side, was in the room, and then Clyde Newberry from Big Lake, Texas, was in the room.
One of the first...
things we did was go to Guyon Hall.
We sat in Guyon Hall for one of the orientations and the guy says look at the guy on the right and look at the guy on the left.
They're not going to be here.
Well at that time I said to myself, well I don't know about those guys, but I'm going to be here.
And as it turned out I was the only one that made it.
Like I said Crowe left early
And then Newberry left at the end of the freshman year, and I never saw him again.
He went back to West Texas.
What was in that room that you threw?
There was a bunk bed and a one bed, you know, just a single bed.
Then there were two tables, and we had a radio.
There were no curtains, no rugs, no nothing but just, we had, you know, GI blankets.
Which of those three beds was yours?
You know, I have no idea.
I don't remember which one it was.
But then after Thanksgiving, when we came back after Thanksgiving, we moved one bed out.
And in fact, my aunt told me here some time ago that when I went home for Thanksgiving in my freshman year, that I told them I wasn't going back.
And they said, you are going back.
And they got in my bag and they put me in the car and they took me out south of Fort Worth to the Aggie line and said, get on back down there.
Well, I don't remember that.
I know there were times, like probably any other freshman that's ever been in the Corps, there were times and I said, you know, I'm not going to put up with this anymore.
And I'll say this, for 1946, that was a bad year for freshmen.
This was just at the end of World War II.
They had had the accelerated program where people went on a tri-semester year.
They went year round.
So what you had, you had a lot of upper classmen that were very young, very immature.
And of course I was just, I had just turned 17 when I came down here and probably I was a year or two early to go to college because I did struggle academically my first year.
I only failed one course in my entire
college career, and that was English.
And my freshman year, part of the final exam was spelling 100 words, and if you missed one word, you failed the entire course.
Well, I was never really that great on spelling.
And of course I missed like three or four of them.
And it was a woman prof, which you know everybody hated having a woman prof because there were no girl students and there certainly shouldn't be any women prof. Well I had one of the few women profs and she got me.
But that was the only course I ever failed.
But the hazing was so bad.
I mean, they would get us up in the middle of the night, take us in the showers, turn the hot showers on, exercise until we just about passed out.
And of course, they used the board all the time.
You could walk by, you could walk over the quad by any dorm at just about any given time and you'd hear boom, boom, boom, where somebody was getting their rear end beat with this board, which was anywhere from three to six feet long.
But it was unreasonable.
Now, all of that came to a head at the end of that semester or during that semester, I guess it was.
And I'm trying to think if it was that semester or the spring semester.
Anyway, the board, the president put out new rules and new regulations and said they were gonna do away with hazing and there'd be no more maid service and maid service at that time where you
had to clean up an upperclassman's room, you had to keep his room just like you were his, that's what you were, you were his maid.
Weekends you waxed his floor, whatever else.
The only thing we didn't do, we never had to shine anyone's shoes.
I know that in the Corps that was one of the things, I guess they're still doing it, but the theory then was, and this was kind of racist, but the theory then was that blacks shine shoes and we don't shine shoes.
So anyway, the hazing was out of control.
Well, they put out rules about this.
And the upperclassmen, they weren't sure they were going to follow the rules, and the veterans got involved in it.
And about half of the students at that time were veterans.
So the core, it was about 50 percent core and about 50 percent veterans, something like that.
And it was always great to have a veteran buddy because you had a place to hide out, which was, for a freshman, was very important.
And I had some veterans from North Fort Worth, Jim Garrison and, well, there were several of them here.
I would go over there and stay in their room.
I'd go over there to study, but I'd usually wind up taking a nap, you know, because you couldn't sleep during the day.
And that was one thing about one of my classmates was Jarvis Miller, who later became president of A&M.
And Jarvis was in my outfit, and this was right at the beginning.
They said that any time an upperclassman comes in your room, hit a brace, which is, you know, stand up straight and so forth.
And so Jarvis was laying on his bed and an upperclassman came in and he hit a brace on his bed.
Well, of course, they didn't think too much of that.
And talking about braces, my grandmother, my grandmother Woodall, used to tell me about my uncle, how nice his posture was.
And she said that was because they kept him in a brace down there at A&M for a long time.
And so I thought that what that meant, there was some kind of brace that you wore when you came down here as a freshman.
And I tried to envision this leather brace or canvas or what kind of brace this was.
And for years, up until the time I actually came down here, I thought you had to wear a brace.
But then I quickly found out what a brace was in the Corps.
So, like I was saying, the hazing was really bad.
In fact, they restricted us several weekends in a row.
You know, we couldn't even get out of the dorm on Saturday and Sunday.
We were restricted to our room for no reason.
We had two sophomores that, you know, there were some sophomores you didn't like, and there were some you just almost hated.
And we had one, J.W.
Robinson was one, and his roommate was, I forget.